I am so excited to be here this is an
incredible camera look take a look
around
this is incredible when I just when I
walked in i couldn't believe it I feel
felt like I was at sea bays part of the
time finally I was at the ISS part of
the time this is amazing so really huge
round of applause for all of the people
that worked on putting this together a
lot of hard work energy and love has
gone into creating this experience so
enjoy it so I wouldn't spend a bit of
time talking to you about why IP fest
matters and why the work that we're
doing it's important and not just now
but in the future meaning there are a
lot of things happening right now in the
world that over time will accumulate to
something very significant and those
decisions are being made now so the
vision Molly asked me to talk about IP
fest from the beginning so I figured I
would start at the beginning let's see
[Music]
[Applause]
No
all credit for that goes to melody sheep
which is an amazing it was an amazing
artist and the reason I like starting
this way is because we often forget that
we are at the culmination of a very very
long history of the universe becoming
aware of the universe producing you and
other things so shorting it it's
something really useful to look back and
to look forward and so if we look back
and we think of not just the last five
years or the last ten years but we've
tried to really look back at our history
and we think about things a million
years ago we can think of the
technologies and things that that shaped
us and things that change from the past
we can think of those shifting and in
you know by a hundred thousand years ago
things looked started to look pretty
different for starting to organize in
various different ways things started
picking up speed around ten thousand
years ago with different kinds of
innovations and so on it kept getting
crazier and crazier and crazier and
crazier and crazier and so this is an
incredible speed of development and it's
hard to understand where all of this is
headed if you try to do this towards the
future this is an exercise in futility
because it's extremely difficult to
predict what is going to happen but we
can try well we can at least look you
know ahead of a little bit and we can
think of say hey we have a lot of
automation going on we have a lot of AR
and B are coming potentially we have
finally the space race is back on and we
have a whole bunch of similar kinds of
innovations that seem tractable maybe a
little bit further out we have things
like human augmentation and different
kinds of machine learning and narrow AI
that that is going to augment what we
can do perhaps we'll start colonizing
other planets we started getting into
like the 100 year mark and that gets
really fuzzy
will we get nanotech we'll be able to
assemble anything we want will we be
able to program the genome oh babe will
we be able to create digital artificial
intelligence this is these are like the
fundamental questions are going to
we decided upon the next roughly a
hundred years and that might set
humanity and our future in a very very
different different course what will
happen after that we will figure out how
to go faster than space travel well we
make rogue ai's that will be evil or but
from our definition of evil or will we
make benign things or what exactly is
going to occur is extremely difficult to
predict
so contrast this we can't we can't
really fathom what's going to happen a
thousand years in the future and yet the
past looks very very understandable to
us we can trace the path of progression
so the future is very very nebulous and
it's unclear what's what will occur you
try to do this further further ahead and
it's just we cannot at all predict what
might happen maybe we'll create Dyson
spheres maybe we will travel to across
the Stars maybe we'll create mono men
protes and go off around the galaxy and
you know a million years is completely
on it completely beyond our reach of
being able to reason reason about this
at this point in time so this very
simple way of compressing our timeline
from a million years ago to a million
years in the future demonstrates that we
were part of something extremely special
something that is occurring right now in
here on this planet here in this century
in this moment of space time it's
extremely fundamentally different than
the things that have been happening
before so when I talk about computing
for a moment and computing and ipfs I
think the a lot of people think about
computing in terms of the printing press
they compared computing to the invention
that managed to create all kinds of
knowledge distribution and create
different notions of communication
across all different kinds of societies
then that people are like well maybe not
maybe it's actually more impactful than
that maybe it's something like writing
writing was actually much more important
as an innovation than the printing press
the prenup press accelerated the
distribution of writing but writing
itself gave us culture and a way to
write it down and pass it on beyond kind
of oral traditions before that
hey maybe
language itself could compute and
compare to the invention of language the
ability to create abstractions and
communicate them to each other the
ability to learn together I actually
think that these are all off and that in
reality computing is something as
fundamentally important as biology
itself so we can think of the invention
in a sense the invention by just
replicators that invention of the
ability of an of an organism of
something material to start to evolve
and to produce the wealth of
biodiversity you see around you and you
that's the kind of impact that something
like but that kind of an innovation can
have and so that's how I think we should
be thinking about computing it's that
level and that scale of an innovation in
a very short amount of time computing
has gone from just a whole bunch of
machines in huge rooms that you have to
kind of wire together and like very
simple mechanisms all the way to having
supercomputers in your pocket so that
you can look all at all kinds of
information and do all kinds of super
powerful things so we as humans walk
around already as cyborgs I don't think
that just because the computer is not
physically embedded in you you can you
know think of yourself as the same as
say a human being a million years ago
you're fundamentally different you can
do many many things that your ancestors
couldn't and so that's something that
we've already begun that kind of
transition so let's blaze through the
history of computing and I'm not gonna
talk about this we'll just kind of we'll
look at it it's more around the
relationship and the thing I wanted you
to take away is the relationship between
programs data and computers in the
beginning there was a big machine and we
loaded it up with a bunch of data and
programs and we produced more data we
took a function and applied it to some
numbers and we got more numbers and then
we decided that we wanted to do that a
lot
and we invented ways of combining these
things and we invented a way of having
functions calling each other and then we
dealt with the fact that some of these
functions might be problematic and my
club or other functions since we figured
out how to create a sane wait of sharing
programs and sharing data and then we
said hey if they're really nice to not
have to go to this huge room and
interact with this like
huge device all the time so what if I
put a screen in some other room and I
run a cable to this big big room and
that was a great idea and so a lot of
people started doing that and other
people said hey what if we make more of
this really big room computer things and
we distribute them around the planet and
there were a bunch they were probably
around twelve and in one moment and for
you know a decade or so they were like
basically somewhere between five and
twelve really big computers that people
used this was very successful but then
people said hey what if we could wire
these really big room computer things to
each other and that was the beginning of
networking and that created the
possibility of certain computers being
able to call each other and store
information and transmit it and so on so
we got the beginning of multi processing
and this the networked computers idea
was so good that it come took the world
by storm and they kept expanding but
right around that same time people
created said hey what if this room
computer was a lot smaller and we could
give it to people and you could take
what you have one in your house and that
at the time was heinous crazy many many
many many people thought that was a
terrible idea
but hey it happened to be quite popular
and a lot of people did this and a lot
of people did this and many more people
did this and then suddenly the entire
planet was carpeted with computers but
there was a also very significant shift
when we went from this to plugging all
of these computers that people now
suddenly had in their homes or in their
offices and so on to have them work
together so the internet had this this
significant evolution as well there all
these different kind of networks then
people said hey what if these networks
work we're able to talk to each other
and that was the beginning of the
internet and again we kind of scale that
up and now that thing is enormous
and so but for the most part the thing
to to take away from this is that at the
end of the day it's just about some
machine computing a function and some
data being fed into that function and
transmitted it over some wires there's a
lot more in the details but at the core
of the in of the main innovations to
computing it's just better and better
ways of moving around functions better
and better ways of moving around data
ways of getting assurances about that
data and
those functions and so on that was
probably the big moment where all of us
got to suddenly experience the Internet
in full force that was when suddenly
programs were able to display things at
us in in a dynamic medium and so first
it was just moving around information I
could have changed the data I could send
you a link and you could look at it
later on we had these browsers that
could run all kinds of more complicated
applications and then we started moving
to this world of like hey maybe you know
there's like some server out in the in
the in the world somewhere and I'm
talking to it and fetching data back and
forth and hey maybe we can ship around
these programs as well because after all
I have a computer so why aren't we
shipping around programs and that's how
we got to the web 2.0 world of the
dynamic media and then we got to a
similar kind of environments
multiprocessing but now at a massive
scale with all kinds of different groups
with all kinds of intentions and all
sorts of people caring about different
things and this was extremely successful
but it created this weird relationship
between between parties where suddenly
you as the user through your client
computer we're mostly subservient and in
in in in a kind of arrangement with a
server where the server was mostly
controlling your data on the programs
and you were mostly accessing that stuff
and this grew and grew and grew there
the world got an enormous amount of
servers and clients and so on and you
know the web 2.0 world world exploded
and it left us in a world where suddenly
now we have a lot of different machines
around the planet some of this them are
benign some of them are malicious some
of them are rational meaning they'll you
know they'll try to cheat you if they
can but they're mostly just trying to
trying to get away something and then
eventually we we got better improvements
we said hey what if we could certify the
data and make sure the data is actually
correct this is you know the beginning
of things like encryption on the
internet at the beginning of the
certificate authorities and the
beginning of hey blockchains
suddenly the ability to do computation
in this medium at the end of the day
it's just about data and programs it's
just you're you have some certified log
of data you're adding functions to it
you're competing on it together and you
know history is kind of repeating itself
we now have a
have one blockchain we have many
blockchains we have like an Internet of
blockchains and the in the centralized
web movement is a similar kind of thing
it said hey let's take these links that
refer to data and what if those were
were secured as well and again we have
it we live in a world with only kinds of
malicious devices and whatnot so going
back to this I think it's important to
to reflect that you know in this room
right now there's probably something
around you know two to three computers
per person and this number is only gonna
keep going up and we'll have new and
better ways of accessing the digital
medium we'll have different kinds of
interfaces arv are around the corner you
know how many people have like put on a
VR headset at this point it's a lot keep
your hand up if you like have like a WoW
moment yeah it's like pretty eerie
awright and this is just gonna continue
increasing how do people have worn an AR
like head thing yeah I'm pretty for this
thing - - that's not quite there yet but
it's getting there brain machine
interfaces is another thing that's
around the corner that's even even
crazier that's you know a bridging
moment of going from this thing is
displaying pictures at my face and I'm
trying to like type with my finger on it
and like that's a very very very slow
mode of communication but what happens
the moment where like we breached that
barrier that's gonna happen sometime in
the next I don't know 10 to 20 years
that's probably a prediction might be
totally off but that's what it seems
like right now there are other kinds of
fundamental changes coming things like
machine learning are made and assisted
systems think think of autonomous cars
those I remember when those were crazy
people used to think this was never
gonna happen and they're here I can
raise your hand if you've driven around
or being driven by an autonomous car
yeah so less people but just wait I'm
gonna keep pulling people year-over-year
and then you know suddenly the room will
will be full and we have robotics
finally we don't quite have Rosie the
robot yet being able to help us or we
don't have like the lost in space robot
that can like befriend you and and take
you and protect you from like evil
aliens and so on but we suddenly now
have the first few systems that can
actually be somewhat robust to to the
environment around them and that's a
very that's one of those like things
waiting to happen that you know it looks
kind of dumb and looks kinda silly and
like that's never gonna happen and you
know suddenly the world changes a lot
you know who remembers when Palm Pilots
were around and people kind of laughed
at them right like but now everyone has
one of these probably one of the most
fundamental things that shifted and
changed things was the the or at least
in the last few years one of the most
important things that has happened is
the development of machine learning
systems that can do complex reasoning
and here complex reasoning at the level
of you know humans in in certain domains
that are extremely difficult to you know
use here at 64 so these are things like
games like chess and go and so on but my
favorite is Starcraft so I think last
year deep mind I think you using a week
of training managed to create systems
that were able to beat world champions
and so this is this is a degree of of
success and and capability that I don't
think we've I don't think we fully
understand and gerak what this kind of
thing is gonna be able to do later on
all kinds of systems that can be
automated things like traffic and
control of all kinds and someone can
happen how many of you are familiar with
Starcraft it's hard right like you have
to maintain an economy you have to like
know how to Scout you have to like go
around like encounter strategies and all
this kind of stuff like that's not not
easy
and so that promise is very significant
changes and improvements to AI a machine
learning as well so those are very
significant fundamental shifts coming
now let's let's think about the internet
for a moment as it exists today all of a
lot of people in shown in this slide or
imagine the people in those buildings
are like you and have
a lot of devices usually one to two
right now it's kind of the average in a
lot of these city cities usually people
have a smartphone and have a computer
this is very different from 20 years ago
and this again only gotta increase so
think for a moment how much of your life
and your personal work and relationships
and so on are maintained over devices
how much of that depends on the
continued operation of the programs they
use day-to-day and the continued
operation of the other networks and what
kind of properties can malicious actors
bring to those to those systems and
completely change or subvert your
expectations of of your daily life but
we are already dependent upon the
internet and computing infrastructure in
a way that makes it extremely both kind
of a dangerous attack target but also an
extremely valuable and and required
thing for our daily life so imagine if
you woke up tomorrow and you couldn't
like the internet what's gone like
completely like you you couldn't access
any of the data that was on it or you
couldn't count on it in the same ways
that you do today to like fine things
and so on sure we would figure things
out life would go on and we would kind
of figure out some other way of doing
things
but just think of the differential of
going you know kind of pre internet to
post Internet this is pretty old I would
like to get an updated plot here but you
know this this is going to catch up very
significantly over the next few years
we'll see another billion people joining
the internet and that's also going to
come with very significant changes it's
very interesting to note how the
internet differs across the world and
how different communities and cities use
it of course there's a lot of security
problems and there are also threats that
potentially the internet my split so
that's something that's coming ahead and
kind of in the near term we don't know
whether this is actually going to happen
but you know you know should absolutely
not happen and we should fight against
it but this is stuff that different
world leaders are considering I remember
there was a moment when there was the
Declaration of Independence of
cyberspace and the hope that at some
point the Internet could become
something like a nation that the
internet was something different
from the rest of the world that idea has
somewhat fizzled lately I don't see as
many people repeating it but at one
point this was a big a big thing in the
internet communities and I think is
something that ought to be brought back
we should be thinking of the
interconnectedness of humanity as
something fundamentally different in the
nation-states and if we figure out some
other ways of coordinating and
organizing as humans then we might be
able to have a much brighter and better
future than the ones that current
government systems have perhaps given or
not given to given us also want to
highlight that there's a lot of
communities that interact with the
Internet in very different ways than
than you so for example one of my
favorite favorite ones is in Cuba
there's a thing called el paquete a
Seminole and that's a cache of content
that moves in US v drives and weekly
somebody smuggles a whole bunch of media
like news and video and so on up from
somewhere in the US - to Cuba I don't
know whether this is still still thing
but for what yeah it is great so this is
a you know a really important way that a
lot of people get news that information
from the rest of the world and you know
it's a way of interacting with the
internet it's just over really really
the slow link so normal programs don't
work but it's still the Internet the you
know things coming up soon are things
something will have biomedical devices
you know think about 80 but some of the
IOT in your not just in your house like
screwing up everything but IOT in your
body potentially screwing up everything
right so so this is I believe now there
are there are some devices that either
are IOT can't I said now or will soon be
which is kind of crazy but what this
this sort of brings in is that these
devices that are currently outside
suddenly may not be in a very near
future we also have hopes that you know
the internet will reach other other
planets and so on so what I want to you
know drive to is that the future is
whatever you make it so you know
hopefully make it a good one and this is
entirely in your hands every single
major innovation in computing history
has been due to
usually is you know it starts with a
single person or a small group and it
grows from there to a large community of
people that have some transformative
change and so at the end of the day it's
you who is going to be deciding whether
or not we have a good future or a bad
future and I hope that you help build a
really good one so that's that you know
the main message that I want to want to
bring you is that beyond just ipfs and
beyond whatever project you're you're
currently working on and so on we're
part of something extremely special that
is changing how how humanity operates
and we have not just the ability to
influence it for for good but we have I
think a duty and then responsibility to
make sure that it goes this goes well
I'll give a brief view into some of the
problems that we're thinking about and
you know putting it in context of the
things we just discussed we tend to
think about ipfs problems are as these
we tend to kind of flash these sets of
problems things like censorship the
ability to use computing systems offline
making sure that links don't break
improving the security model dealing
with inefficiency problems and being
able to use the internet in all kinds of
different different networks and you
know this is kind of like that rating
that I give us right now this is kind of
where we're at so I would have not sort
of predicted this I wouldn't have
thought that the censorship was the one
that we're kind of doing best at and but
we have a lot of work to do as a whole I
PFS community to make sure that I would
love to see these things totally green
in some kind of short timeline being
able to use imagine be able to use the
web and all of its amazing systems
entirely in a kind of disconnected
environment where you can connect to
peers nearby and you don't have to go
out to the some other computer somewhere
owned by somebody else to interact with
your own personal data or imagine being
able to have a drastically more
efficient system where you don't have to
like keep downloading things from from
somewhere else and you can interact with
with each other here so these are some
other things that we've been thinking
about think things of how to kind of
model and improve digital freedoms or
potentially how to improve analog
freedoms through secure communications
so when you think about a lot of the
people
that today deal with important movements
in against kind of their governments and
so on they face all kind of very
difficult targeting where you know you
can think of like the machine learning
systems are tracking everybody's faces
in things like the Hong Kong movement
recently register you remember the Hong
Kong like a huge March that just
happened there are a bunch of cameras
all over the city and taking taking
pictures of people so people say analog
freedoms can't depend on secure
communications so if we can improve
these things and then the world can be
better there you know all sorts of other
other kind of things that derive from
this but this is the headspace and set
of problems that we want to work on
recently we we synthesize a road map of
the things we care about and things we
want to we want to achieve in the long
term and there are these sets of there's
a kind of broken down and grouped in a
set of goals and we use this as a way to
coordinate a larger community to focus
on some things together because if we
try to go in every single possible
direction at once we won't move very far
but if we kind of focus a lot of our
attention in one area we can land that
and then kind of move on better thank
you very much my yeah thank you and yeah
so one thing I want to mention as well
is if you think about platforms that you
used today the PC was a really big deal
because it was an extremely open
platform where you could feed your
software into it and it could operate so
was the web that what was this amazing
open environment where your creativity
and your ability to just make something
and give somebody a link was a big
reason why this thing took off so
quickly mobile and so on are kind of in
between hybrid where it's sort of open
but but kind of closed all kinds of
things are not possible in in a mobile
environment the way that it is and the
web IOT is mostly closed some some IOT
variants are pretty open but a lot of
the systems are totally closed down and
it's unclear what's gonna happen with VR
and machine learning and so on I
personally think that we have a right
now an amazing runway of time before
kind of the current social media
organizations pounds on the VR world
they're all really trying to do it
but I you know do you wanna have like a
Metaverse like the web or a meta verse
like you know Facebook like that's like
the the I think the distinction in the
future decision point that we'll have so
you know like think of being able to
build application systems that operate
on these so some of the stuff that we
that I've been you know amazingly proud
of the whole community for doing is you
know getting the browser upgrade path
really close to done
this is something that we focused on
early on early on and we went from you
know having a gateway to having a web UI
and then like a desktop system and then
having a whole JavaScript implementation
and then having that work in a browser
extension and with all the handlers and
having service workers and so suddenly
you know getting it bundled into some
browsers since we're right on the cusp
of having a much better better adoption
there's still a long way for all of this
would be to work perfectly there's still
a huge gap between kind of work worse
today and and and what uh what will what
we the level of reliability that we need
but it's it's pretty great to see this
this level of progress on the OS side
we're still have longer way to go we
have I think from the simple systems who
are now having desktop it's a huge
improvement but they're still somewhat
wrote ago and I think probably the most
mobile is something that we kind of
didn't really focus on as a community
but then there's a few groups that
really really cared about mobile pushed
it to to where it's at today and now you
can actually download mobile apps that
come with ipfs bundled in and you can
interact with other peers and so on
which is a really big really cool result
on flash some milestones that we kind of
moved through the community so hey we
have content addressed data and you can
link link to it and you can get it which
is a really big deal we have we broke
apart sections of the project that could
be used in other systems without having
to rely on like this huge monolith
instead we you can pull out pieces and
start reusing them for other components
it's a big result and you know it's
gonna hold like stock involved in here
this whole second and so on assistance
is used across the D web and web 3
ecosystem
again browser support OS support we have
dynamic data operating on the stuff with
CRT T's which is really really awesome
so this is again a lot of this stuff is
prototype stage still but it's it's
great to be able to do kind of real-time
connectivity the same way that you could
do in something like Google Doc but with
peers around you there's kind of a
beginnings of things like VR and that's
really cool and then of course I will
mention you know dealing with in
censorship problems things like the
distributed wikipedia mirror and perhaps
most importantly here the fact that ipfs
was used in helping distribute the
locations of the referendum polling
booths right so if you don't think that
governments sometimes prevent freedom of
speech you know you don't have to go
very far to hear from people that were
around and we're there
on those days and had a very you know
problematic situation where their
government was preventing them from
distributing information which is which
kind of sucks so thank you all of you
who helped to make this you know we
chipped in a little bit kind of not sort
of intentionally but we shipped in a
little bit in building some
infrastructure that helps to help push
this towards the future so thanks for
doing that I want to kind of reflect
though that computing revolutions take a
long time so the history of hypertext is
extremely old as an example so the very
beginning ideas were in 1945 there were
a whole bunch of sequences of systems
all the way until 1991 which was the
very first massively distributed
hypertext system that really worked and
that had had to write in a whole bunch
of other computing innovations and I
think even Tim berners-lee was involved
in enquirer which is not even like the
the web was kind of like an earlier
system so a whole bunch of ideas got
innovated upon all the way so you know
this kind of stuff is hard takes time
and the thing that makes it happen in
the end is persistence and and and
really determination to make sure that
certain kinds of results are achieved so
like Tim you know the battle must rage
again
the last thing I'll mention is all of
this it is entirely about you you you as
a community the I profess community is
the group that is making all of this
amazing thing happen
the amazing groups of friendships that
were formed through this the amazing so
this was like that meetings that
happened recently so it's a really
really really fun thing I can't wait to
have this live pictures from this thing
for for the future so I think it's going
to be a really really fun time and again
thank you to the enormous amazing
community that we have so give yourself
a hand
it's really the this was a picture that
I use at the very beginning so thanks
for joining the fellowship of white BFS
and let's let's have some fun
[Applause]